AIDS is caused by
infection with a virus called
the Human Immunodeficiency Virus
type 1
or HIV 1.
This virus has an outer envelope,
or membrane
covered in spikes made of the proteins
Just below is a layer
called the matrix or capsid.
The capsid covers the components
needed for replication.
These include 3 enzymes
called reverse transcriptase,
integrase,
and protease
and 2 strands of
ribonucleic acid or RNA,
which carry genetic information.
HIV 1 infects cells
of the immune system,
such as helper T cells
and macrophages,
These cells are critical
for fighting off viral invasion
and infection.
Spikes on the surface of the virus
attach to receptors
on the target cell.
Once docked,
the virus's inner capsid
enters the target cell.
The viruses outer membrane
Is left behind as part of the
target cellular membrane.
Inside the cell
the viral capsid dissolves.
This releases the virus's
reverse transcriptase and RNA.
Reverse transcriptase
Creates a circular sequence
of viral DNA
from the viral RNA.
The new segment of viral DNA
Is taken through a pore
in the target cell's nucleus
to reach it's DNA.
The viral DNA is then
spliced into the target cell DNA.
Target cell mechanisms
create messenger RNA
which serves as a template
for viral proteins.
Ribosomes produce these proteins
after messenger RNA leaves the nucleus.
They form new viral RNA strands
which float through the cellular space,
join with vital enzymes
and are encapsulated near the
target cell surface.
They bud from the cell surface,
with an envelope formed
from the host cell membrane.
As many as 10 billion
HIV virus particles
are produced a day
in an infected person.